<!-- vscode-markdown-toc -->
* 1. [Getting started with the program](#Gettingstartedwiththeprogram)
	* 1.1. [Welcome to the Google Project Management Certificate](#WelcometotheGoogleProjectManagementCertificate)
	* 1.2. [Reading - Program and course overview](#Reading-Programandcourseoverview)
	* 1.3. [Introduction to Course 1](#IntroductiontoCourse1)
	* 1.4. [Commit to completing the program](#Committocompletingtheprogram)
	* 1.5. [Reading - Helpful resources to get started](#Reading-Helpfulresourcestogetstarted)
* 2. [Understanding the basics of Project Management](#UnderstandingthebasicsofProjectManagement)
	* 2.1. [What is project management?](#Whatisprojectmanagement)
	* 2.2. [What does a project manager do?](#Whatdoesaprojectmanagerdo)
	* 2.3. [Transferable project management skills](#Transferableprojectmanagementskills)
	* 2.4. [X: Path to becoming a project manager](#X:Pathtobecomingaprojectmanager)
* 3. [Learning about careers in Project Management](#LearningaboutcareersinProjectManagement)
	* 3.1. [From certificate to career success](#Fromcertificatetocareersuccess)
	* 3.2. [Reading - Explore project management roles](#Reading-Exploreprojectmanagementroles)
	* 3.3. [Finding the perfect role](#Findingtheperfectrole)
	* 3.4. [Gilbert - Project management skills in my role](#Gilbert-Projectmanagementskillsinmyrole)
	* 3.5. [Career goals and next steps](#Careergoalsandnextsteps)
	* 3.6. [Reading - Using buzzwords in your job search](#Reading-Usingbuzzwordsinyourjobsearch)
	* 3.7. [Test your knowledge: Learning about careers in project management](#Testyourknowledge:Learningaboutcareersinprojectmanagement)
	* 3.8. [Browsing Future Jobs](#BrowsingFutureJobs)
* 4. [Review - Embarking on a career in Project Management](#Review-EmbarkingonacareerinProjectManagement)
	* 4.1. [Wrap-up](#Wrap-up)
	* 4.2. [Module 1 Challenge](#Module1Challenge)

<!-- vscode-markdown-toc-config
	numbering=true
	autoSave=true
	/vscode-markdown-toc-config -->
<!-- /vscode-markdown-toc -->

##  1. <a name='Gettingstartedwiththeprogram'></a>Getting started with the program

###  1.1. <a name='WelcometotheGoogleProjectManagementCertificate'></a>Welcome to the Google Project Management Certificate
- To be:
  - Organized
  - Action-oriented
  - Diligent
  - Strategic
- Project Management: The application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to meet the project requirements and achieve the desired outcome.

###  1.2. <a name='Reading-Programandcourseoverview'></a>Reading - Program and course overview
- Course tips:
    - ake all six courses—and complete the items in each lesson—in the order they appear, as new information and concepts build on previous ones. 
    - Make the most of the readings and additional resources throughout the program. They’re designed to support your learning. 
    - If something is confusing, don’t hesitate to re-watch a video, go through a reading again, or ask your classmates for advice in the discussion forum. 
    - Take part in all learning opportunities to gain as much knowledge and experience as possible. 

###  1.3. <a name='IntroductiontoCourse1'></a>Introduction to Course 1
- CourseObjectives
  - Understand which types of jobs are suitable 
  - Define key project management terms
  - Define roles and responsabilities
  - Discuss the types of jobs you can pursue
  - Define project and project manager
  - Define project lifecycle
  - Describe organization structures and cultures and its impact in project management

##  2. <a name='UnderstandingthebasicsofProjectManagement'></a>Understanding the basics of Project Management 

###  2.1. <a name='Whatisprojectmanagement'></a>What is project management?
- Project: 
  - A unique endeavor, and usually includes a set of unique deliverables
  - A temporary pursuit (i has a defined beginning and end)
  - A series of tasks that need to be completed to reach a desired outcome.
- What is project management?
  - The application of knowloedge, skills, tools, and techniques to **meet the project requirements and achieve the desired outcome**.  
- Why is project management an important part of an organization:
  - Valuable to businesses because it helps ensure that a project delivers the expected outcomes (on time and within budget).
- how is it vital to a project's success:
  - Organize, budget, maintain good communication of how is it going
- Some statistics (according to PMI):
  - 48% of projects miss delivery dates
  - 43% of projects miss budget targets
  - 31% of projects fails to meet an organization's goals   
  - 
###  2.2. <a name='Whatdoesaprojectmanagerdo'></a>What does a project manager do?
- Planning and organizing
- managing tasks: communicating key milestones so customers can kno about the progress.
- budgeting
- controlling costs and other factors
- In others words he makes sure that the project outcome is bringing value to the company.
  - a successful project will always add value
  - 
###  2.3. <a name='Transferableprojectmanagementskills'></a>Transferable project management skills
- Every time when you were planning (a party, an event) you were using project management skills.
  - So this can be reused!

###  2.4. <a name='X:Pathtobecomingaprojectmanager'></a>X: Path to becoming a project manager
- Most of us, in our everyday life, use program management.

##  3. <a name='LearningaboutcareersinProjectManagement'></a>Learning about careers in Project Management

###  3.1. <a name='Fromcertificatetocareersuccess'></a>From certificate to career success
-Some industries uses `<specific business> project manager` e.g. IT Project Manager
- Intership: a short term way to get hans-on experience in the industry
- Contract-work: no an official employee of the company, contractor may be hired on a prpoject-by-project basis.
- You dont need to be an expert in a focused technical topic (just need to be able to manage project).
  
###  3.2. <a name='Reading-Exploreprojectmanagementroles'></a>Reading - Explore project management roles

- Project management job categories and common roles 
- Introductory-level project management roles
  - Entry-level project management positions are a great opportunity to get your foot in the door and learn the ins and outs of how a company operates and manages projects. The lessons you learn from these experiences are extremely valuable to your growth in project management. Some entry-level project management positions include:
    - Junior Project Manager: Performs all aspects of being a project manager alongside a more experienced professional.
    - Project Administrator: Assists the rest of the project team with administrative tasks. 
    - Project/Program Assistant: Supports team members working on a project and offers administrative support. May perform research or create training documents along with other jobs as assigned by program leaders.
    - Project/Program Coordinator: Participates in hands-on project work and administrative tasks. Works under a project manager to make sure projects are completed on time and within budget.
    - Project Support Specialist: Works alongside a project manager and team members to oversee assigned projects. May also be responsible for training and developing employees to perform designated tasks.
- Traditional project management roles
  - Once you have gained some experience in introductory-level positions, you can explore traditional project management roles, such as:
    - Project Manager: Responsible for the initiating, planning, executing, monitoring, and closing of a project. Includes industry-specific titles like IT project manager, construction project manager, or engineering project manager, which utilize skills that are transferable among industries.
    - Project Analyst: Moves a project along by sharing information, providing support through data analysis, and contributing to strategy and performance. 
    - Project Leader/Director: Drives core decision-making and sets the direction for the project. Usually knowledgeable about the product or deliverable. 
    - Project Controller: Primarily responsible for project planning. You are likely to see this job title in industries like engineering and construction.
    - Technical Project Manager: Conducts project planning and management for identified goals within a company. Ensures that projects are completed to the requirements within a defined time frame and budget.
    - Project Management Office (PMO) Analyst: Manages the progress of complex projects to ensure timely execution and completion. 
- Program and portfolio management roles
  - As you have learned, project managers are responsible for the day-to-day management of projects. They shepherd projects from start to finish and serve as a guide for their team. Project managers must apply the right tools, techniques, and processes to complete the project successfully, on time, and within budget. 
  - After you have carried out projects successfully and feel you are ready for a step up in responsibility, a program manager position may be the next step for you. While a project is one single-focused endeavor, a program is a collection of projects. Program managers are responsible for managing many projects. At Google, all project managers are called program managers because they manage multiple projects simultaneously. 
  - Successfully implementing programs as a program manager can eventually make you a great fit for more senior positions, such as a senior program manager or a portfolio manager. A portfolio is a collection of projects and programs across an entire organization. Portfolio managers are responsible for portfolios of projects or programs for one client. Over the course of your career, you might progress from project manager to program manager to portfolio manager roles.
  - While project, program, and portfolio managers hold different types and levels of responsibility, they are all project managers. In Course 4 of this certificate program, you will learn more about differentiating projects, programs, and portfolios.
    - project manager > program manager > portfolio manager
    - Program managers: Manage a group of projects that are related or similar to one another and handle the coordination of these projects. They facilitate effective communication between individual project managers and provide support where necessary. They also help create and manage long-term goals for their organization.
    - Portfolio managers: Responsible for managing a group of related programs within the same organization. They coordinate various programs in order to ensure they are on track and that the organization is meeting its strategic initiatives. Portfolio managers look at all projects and programs within the organization and prioritize work as necessary. 
- Operational management roles 
  - In operational management roles, you will get the opportunity to experience several different departments and how they interact and operate. Operational management roles allow you to work alongside peers and management from various business segments, giving you an appreciation for what each segment does on a daily basis. Key elements of project management include making sure a project is on budget and on schedule. This course, and your experience as a project manager, will give you the tools to be able to apply those skills to running a business. Some operational management positions include:
    - Operations Analyst: Manages and coordinates research, investigates workflows, creates business procedures, and recommends changes to improve the project and company. 
    - Operations Manager: Oversees strategic decision-making and rolls out plans of action based on financial, schedule, and resource reporting. 
    - Chief Operating Officer: Responsible for overseeing the day-to-day administrative and operational functions of a business.
- Agile roles
  - We will discuss the Agile project management approach in depth later, but here are a couple of the positions you may see that are related to that approach:
    - Scrum Master: Coordinates and guides the Scrum team. Knowledgeable in Agile framework and Scrum and is able to teach others about the Scrum values and principles. May also be listed as a Technical Program Manager or Technical Project Manager. 
    - Product Owner: Drives the direction of product development and progress. 

###  3.3. <a name='Findingtheperfectrole'></a>Finding the perfect role
- Look for similar roles, job responsabilities
- Networking: when you meet other people in professional setting with the goal of learning, sharing knowledge, creating new business connections.

###  3.6. <a name='Reading-Usingbuzzwordsinyourjobsearch'></a>Reading - Using buzzwords in your job search
- Using buzzwords and skills in your job search
  - In an earlier video, we mentioned buzzwords—words or phrases that are popular for a period of time or in a particular industry. In today’s job market, buzzwords like data-driven, team player, and self-starter are common. You may see terms like these show up throughout your searches. 
  - Similarly, many job descriptions list the specific skills they require candidates to have. These skills can become some of the terms that you use in your job search. Examples of these skills include: 
    - Coordination, or getting people and teams to work together. You may see responsibilities in job descriptions such as “coordination of efforts to achieve project deliverable” or “coordinate internal resources to ensure successful project completion.” Being a project manager is essentially managing the coordination of resources to achieve your end goal. Coordination is one of the top skills a project manager should have, so searching for this term can lead you to appropriate positions. 
    - Organization, or the ability to stay focused on different tasks. You may come across phrases like “solid organizational skills, including attention to detail and multitasking skills” or something as simple as “highly organized.” Organization is key to being a great project manager. We will discuss many ways to sharpen this skill in the upcoming lessons.
    - Leadership, or being able to lead a group of people. You may see phrases like “strong leadership qualities” or “ability to lead” in job descriptions. A project manager needs to display leadership in a number of ways, including effective planning, efficient task coordination, inspiring team members, and key decision-making. You are working on many of the skills needed to become a great leader in this program!
- Take a look at the skills required for this position. The job description lists each of the terms that we talked about or a variation of these terms.
  - Project Manager Example:
    - Excellent time management, prioritization, and organizational skills
    - Demonstrated ability to lead others
    - Outstanding communication skills
    - Successful track record in coordinating the work of internal and external teams to develop new products
- You may also come across positions in your search that do not include the title “Project Manager” or any of the job titles we previously discussed, but you shouldn’t rule these positions out. In many cases, the job description will include project management experience and expectations, but the position may be called something else entirely. 
- Look at some of the job responsibilities required for a position titled “Operations Associate.” This position is a type of project manager. You will find that most project management-related job descriptions call for the ability to plan, organize, monitor, and execute tasks—all skills you will be able to do once you complete this certification.
  - Operations Associate:
    - Plan and organize team objectives and priorities
    - Develop and execute reporting and process design
    - Monitor daily operations and enhance processes to maximize efficiency
    - Coordinate training plans
- Common project management buzzwords
  - Including buzzwords and skills in your job search can help you find jobs that are ideal for you and your skill set. Once you have found a position you want to apply for, listing buzzwords and skills that are relevant to the position can also help recruiters and hiring managers identify you as a qualified and knowledgeable candidate. 
  - Some common project management-related buzzwords and skills you could include on your resume are:
    - Analytical
    - Assertive
    - Assessing outcomes
    - Assessing progress
    - Attention to detail
    - Conflict resolution
    - Collaborative
    - Coordination
    - Communication
    - Development
    - Evaluation
    - Executing plans
    - Financial analysis
    - Impact assessment
    - Leadership engagement
    - Managing meetings
    - Managing client expectations
    - Managing conflicts
    - Managing relationships with stakeholders
    - Managing vendors
    - Meeting deadlines
    - Monitoring
    - Multitasking
    - Planning
    - Prioritizing
    - Problem-solving
    - Process development
    - Process improvement
    - Project coordination
    - Project implementation
    - Project initialization
    - Project planning
    - Project reporting
    - Quality control
    - Risk assessment
    - Risk management
    - Solution development
    - Strategic planning
    - Strong interpersonal skills
    - Strong verbal communication
    - Strong written communication
- Key takeaway
  - Job searching for your first (or next) project management position can be easier if you enter the right search terms. Search for the skills you’re learning throughout this project management certificate program or skills you’ve acquired in your current or previous positions. These terms will help you determine if you have found a potential match. As you start your project management career, don’t let the requirement for project management experience stop you from applying for project management-adjacent roles. Once you have completed this certification course, you'll see how many skills you already have that can be translated and correlated to a project management role. 

##  4. <a name='Review-EmbarkingonacareerinProjectManagement'></a>Review - Embarking on a career in Project Management

###  4.1. <a name='Wrap-up'></a>Wrap-up

###  4.2. <a name='Module1Challenge'></a>Module 1 Challenge


